>> Steve Kinney: So we're gonna start with
parsing, which is kind of the first part.
We have to figure out what
we're working with, right?
And parsing we can kind
of break into two pieces,
lexical analysis and syntactic analysis.
One is like,
we don't just want every character,
we want the kind of like pieces of it,
right?
We want the given keywords.
We want an entire string
as a piece of our code and
then giving an entire multi digit
number as a piece of our code, right?
We need all of those things
kind of separated out first,
like we might not care about white space.
We might throw the semicolons
in the garbage can, right?
Any other things are fair game, but
we need to figure out what are the pieces
that are important and kind of break
them into those meaningful chunks.
Once we have those meaningful chunks,
we can figure out, okay,
now that I know the words, what does
this sentence actually mean, right?
And I can begin to figure that stuff out.
They're technically both parsing, right?
But we're going
to kind of split them out into two
because it makes a little more sense.
So let's first talk about lexing, which
is how cool kids say lexical analysis.
Basically, like I said,
it's taking the string and
turning it into what we call tokens.
So what are the tokens?
The given parentheses are tokens.
The keyword 'add' is a token.
The numbers 1 and 2, and
6 and 3 are tokens, right?
These are the pieces.
I don't want every I
don't want a d d space 2.
I want these pieces I can
start to think about.
So how might this work, right?
We would basically have a string of code.
The way we're gonna do it is
we're gonna have a cursor, right?
Which is just the position of where we
are in that giant string of code, right?
And as we will kind of
iterate that cursor through,
kind of looking for things, right?
We came across a word, great.
Let's start scanning that word until
we come to the end of the word.
Cool, that's a token.
Put it in the token bag, right?
It came across a number.
How many digits does it have?
We need to collect them all.
There's a quote?
This must be a string.
Go until you find the next quote.
Put it in the token bag, right?
It's a parentheses?
I need that.
Go to the list.
I need all the parentheses.
Give me each and every one of them.
White space?
I don't care about white space, right?
Other than the fact that it
breaks up numbers and words,
once I've used it as a boundary, it
doesn't matter to me what happens, right?
And we just keep putting everything
into the array of tokens.
And then we'll go back through that array
once we've gotten everything broken up
into chunks.
And that is when we'll be able to kind
of figure out what it all kind of comes
together and means.